PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 26/02/2020
=======================================================================
Present:
-------
Rudolf (ESRF), Jean-François (ILL), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Valentina (PSI)

Minutes
-------
The main point discussed during the meeting were: 
what kind of feedback do we want to get from our stakeholders? In which stage of the project do we want to involve them? Shall we include any feedback in deliverable 7.1? How do we want to involve them (mailing list, single email, etc)? Not all the stakeholders (the list is available here) have the same influence in the project. Do we want to define “stakeholders categories” in order to focus the right set of questions to the right group of stakeholders? 
It has been agreed that the first step is to define the right communication channel and involve all the PaNOSC’s  WP leaders in defining the questions we want to ask them, and when. In parallel, a general email with the PaNOSC’s introduction together with the scope of WP 7 will be sent to the selected stakeholders to confirm their availability to provide feedback. 
•	D 7.1 - Photon and Neutron EOSC Stakeholder Feedback. Structure of the document and scope.
Roberto will deliver a first draft of the deliverable within the end of February 2020. This will be a google doc in which the comments from all the Partners will be collected. Once the draft will be available, all necessary integrations will de done to include the elements agreed (plan of feedback request).
•	Task 7.2 - Metrics and cost for the Photon and Neutron community EOSC. Discussion of the approach:
The cost model that Roberto presented is based on a beamtime cost calculation in Elettra. It has been proposed to integrate this whit the beamtime cost calculation of the other project partners, however the partners participating to the call have not gone thorugh this exercise. In order to define a procedure for the calculation of the cost of the operations, it has been proposed to define what is counted as “ normal/ordinary activities” and what is “EOSC related”. The “EOSC related” activities, have to take into account the cost of the open-access practice, as well as the analysis and storage services. 
This last point will be developed during the next WP 7 meeting that will be held on Wednesday 11 March 2020 from 11:00 to 12:00. 
•	AOB
Nothing to report

Action list:
- Upload draft D 7.1 in google docs
- Update stakeholders database
- Contact stakeholders introducing PaNOSC and ask for their availability
- Contact WP leaders and ask for their needs in terms of feedback from stakeholders
- Complete draft D 7.1 incorporating what discussed during the meeting (previous action points)
- For D 7.2, collect cost models of facilities, if available.
